README.md, before:

# Milvus Operator

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/zilliztech/milvus-operator/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=DAXmgusBQq)](https://codecov.io/gh/zilliztech/milvus-operator)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator)
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/milvus-io/milvus" alt="license">


> **ATTENTIONS:** THE `MAIN` BRANCH MAY BE IN AN UNSTABLE OR EVEN BROKEN STATE DURING DEVELOPMENT.

# Overview
[Milvus](https://milvus.io) is a cloud-native, open-source vector database built to manage embedding vectors generated by machine learning models and neural networks. It extends the capabilities of best-in-class approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search libraries (e.g. Faiss, NMSLIB, Annoy) and features on-demand scalability, and high availability.

The Milvus Operator provides an easy and solid solution to deploy and manage a full Milvus service stack including both the milvus components and its relevant dependencies such as etcd, pulsar and minio to the target [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) clusters in a scalable and high-available way. The Milvus Operator defines a `Milvus` custom resources on top of Kubernetes [Custom Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/). The Kubernetes API can then be used in a declarative way to manage Milvus deployment stack and ensure its scalability and high-availability operation.

# Milvus Operator VS Helm

In general, Milvus Operator is recommanded for production. Helm is recommanded for beginners.

Milvus Operator provides more features for production. But you need to install it in your kubernetes before you start your first Milvus instance. If you are new to Milvus and Kubernetes. Helm is easier to use and you can start your first Milvus instance in minutes. 

For more details, please check the table below:

<!-- source csv for table
Advantages, Milvus Operator, Milvus Helm
Recommended for Beginners , , ✅
Quick Start , , ✅
Recommended for Production , ✅, 
Better Managed Rolling Upgrade, ✅, 
Dynamic Configuration Reload , ✅, 
Health Check Metrics , ✅, 
Diagnose Message When Unhealthy, ✅, 
Quick Suspending Instance, ✅, 
Cleanup Resources after Deletion, ✅,  -->

|Advantages| Milvus Operator| Milvus Helm|
|---|---|---|
|Recommended for Beginners | | ✅|
|Quick Start | | ✅|
|Recommended for Production | ✅| |
|Better Managed Rolling Upgrade| ✅| |
|Dynamic Configuration Reload | ✅| |
|Health Check Metrics | ✅| |
|Diagnose Message When Unhealthy| ✅| |
|Quick Suspend Running Instance| ✅| |
|Cleanup Resources after Deletion| ✅| |

# Documentations
- [Installation](docs/installation/installation.md)
- [Install KinD for development](docs/installation/kind-installation.md)
- Administration Guides:
  - [Configure Milvus with Milvus Operator](docs/administration/configure-milvus.md)
  - Manage Dependencies:
    - [Configure Meta Storge](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/meta-storage.md)
    - [Configure Object Storage](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/object-storage.md)
    - [Configure Message Storage](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/message-storage.md)
  - [Monitor And Alert](docs/administration/monitor-and-alert.md)
  - [Allocate Resources](docs/administration/allocate-resources.md)
  - [Scale A Milvus Cluster](docs/administration/scale-a-milvus-cluster.md)
  - [Upgrade](docs/administration/upgrade.md)
  - Security:
    - [Enable TLS](docs/administration/security/encryption-in-transit.md)
    - [Enable Authentication](docs/administration/security/enable-authentication.md)
- [Milvus CRD Reference](docs/CRD/milvus.md)
- [How it works](docs/arch/arch.md)

# Getting started
## Deploy milvus operator

Install or upgrade to latest version with helm:

```shell
helm repo add milvus-operator https://zilliztech.github.io/milvus-operator/
helm repo update milvus-operator
helm -n milvus-operator upgrade --install --create-namespace milvus-operator milvus-operator/milvus-operator
```

Or with kubectl & raw manifests:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/v1.3.0/deploy/manifests/deployment.yaml
```

For more infomation Check [Installation Instructions](docs/installation/installation.md)

## Create milvus demo instance
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/main/config/samples/demo.yaml
```

> Note: The demo instance starts a standalone milvus & its dependencies with the least resources requests. It is not suitable for production environment. For more deployment examples please check https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/tree/main/config/samples

# Versioning

Versions of the underlying components are listed below:

<!-- source csv for table
Components, Milvus, Pulsar / Kafka, Etcd, MinIO
Versions, v2.6.0 `[1]`, 3.0.7 / 3.1.0, 3.5.18, RELEASE.2023-03-20T20-16-18Z -->

|Components| Milvus| Pulsar / Kafka| Etcd| MinIO|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Versions| v2.6.0 `[1]`| 3.0.7`[2]` / 3.1.0 | 3.5.18 |RELEASE.2023-03-20T20-16-18Z|


> `[1]` Version of milvus is the default version we will use, you can set it to other version. The Compatibility with milvus releases is showed below.
>
> `[2]` pulsar of 2.x is also supported. check [this sample](config/samples/milvus_pulsar_v2.yaml) for more details.

## Compatibility With Milvus Releases

<!-- source csv for table
Milvus Versions, <=v2.0.0-rc8, v2.0.0-pre-ga, >=v2.0.0
Compatibility, ❌, ✅, ✅  -->

|Milvus Versions| <=v2.0.0-rc8| v2.0.0-pre-ga| >=v2.0.0|
|---|---|---|---|
|Compatibility| ❌| ✅| ✅|

## Compatibility With Milvus-Operator Earlier Releases

<!-- source csv for table
Milvus Operator Versions, <0.4.0, >=0.4.0
Compatibility, ❌, ✅  -->

|Milvus Operator Versions| <0.4.0| >=0.4.0|
|---|---|---|
|Compatibility| ❌| ✅|


# Install / upgrade milvus-operator of a specific version

Use helm:

```shell
helm upgrade --install milvus-operator \
  -n milvus-operator --create-namespace \
  https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/releases/download/v1.3.0/milvus-operator-1.3.0.tgz
```

Or use kubectl & raw manifests:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/v1.3.0/deploy/manifests/deployment.yaml
```

Commit message:

docs(readme): fix typos and minor grammar in README.md (#396)
This PR fixes a few spelling/wording issues in README.md. No content or behavior changes.

Changes:
- "recommanded" → "recommended" (2 occurrences)
- "infomation" → "information"
- "Documentations" → "Documentation"
- Link text: "Configure Meta Storge" → "Configure Meta Storage" (URL unchanged)

Signed-off-by: Mehmetymw <mehmetyw@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Milvus Operator

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/zilliztech/milvus-operator/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=DAXmgusBQq)](https://codecov.io/gh/zilliztech/milvus-operator)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator)
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/milvus-io/milvus" alt="license">


> **ATTENTIONS:** THE `MAIN` BRANCH MAY BE IN AN UNSTABLE OR EVEN BROKEN STATE DURING DEVELOPMENT.

# Overview
[Milvus](https://milvus.io) is a cloud-native, open-source vector database built to manage embedding vectors generated by machine learning models and neural networks. It extends the capabilities of best-in-class approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search libraries (e.g. Faiss, NMSLIB, Annoy) and features on-demand scalability, and high availability.

The Milvus Operator provides an easy and solid solution to deploy and manage a full Milvus service stack including both the milvus components and its relevant dependencies such as etcd, pulsar and minio to the target [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) clusters in a scalable and high-available way. The Milvus Operator defines a `Milvus` custom resources on top of Kubernetes [Custom Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/). The Kubernetes API can then be used in a declarative way to manage Milvus deployment stack and ensure its scalability and high-availability operation.

# Milvus Operator VS Helm

In general, Milvus Operator is recommended for production. Helm is recommended for beginners.

Milvus Operator provides more features for production. But you need to install it in your kubernetes before you start your first Milvus instance. If you are new to Milvus and Kubernetes. Helm is easier to use and you can start your first Milvus instance in minutes. 

For more details, please check the table below:

<!-- source csv for table
Advantages, Milvus Operator, Milvus Helm
Recommended for Beginners , , ✅
Quick Start , , ✅
Recommended for Production , ✅, 
Better Managed Rolling Upgrade, ✅, 
Dynamic Configuration Reload , ✅, 
Health Check Metrics , ✅, 
Diagnose Message When Unhealthy, ✅, 
Quick Suspending Instance, ✅, 
Cleanup Resources after Deletion, ✅,  -->

|Advantages| Milvus Operator| Milvus Helm|
|---|---|---|
|Recommended for Beginners | | ✅|
|Quick Start | | ✅|
|Recommended for Production | ✅| |
|Better Managed Rolling Upgrade| ✅| |
|Dynamic Configuration Reload | ✅| |
|Health Check Metrics | ✅| |
|Diagnose Message When Unhealthy| ✅| |
|Quick Suspend Running Instance| ✅| |
|Cleanup Resources after Deletion| ✅| |

# Documentation
- [Installation](docs/installation/installation.md)
- [Install KinD for development](docs/installation/kind-installation.md)
- Administration Guides:
  - [Configure Milvus with Milvus Operator](docs/administration/configure-milvus.md)
  - Manage Dependencies:
    - [Configure Meta Storage](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/meta-storage.md)
    - [Configure Object Storage](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/object-storage.md)
    - [Configure Message Storage](docs/administration/manage-dependencies/message-storage.md)
  - [Monitor And Alert](docs/administration/monitor-and-alert.md)
  - [Allocate Resources](docs/administration/allocate-resources.md)
  - [Scale A Milvus Cluster](docs/administration/scale-a-milvus-cluster.md)
  - [Upgrade](docs/administration/upgrade.md)
  - Security:
    - [Enable TLS](docs/administration/security/encryption-in-transit.md)
    - [Enable Authentication](docs/administration/security/enable-authentication.md)
- [Milvus CRD Reference](docs/CRD/milvus.md)
- [How it works](docs/arch/arch.md)

# Getting started
## Deploy milvus operator

Install or upgrade to latest version with helm:

```shell
helm repo add milvus-operator https://zilliztech.github.io/milvus-operator/
helm repo update milvus-operator
helm -n milvus-operator upgrade --install --create-namespace milvus-operator milvus-operator/milvus-operator
```

Or with kubectl & raw manifests:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/v1.3.0/deploy/manifests/deployment.yaml
```

For more information Check [Installation Instructions](docs/installation/installation.md)

## Create milvus demo instance
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/main/config/samples/demo.yaml
```

> Note: The demo instance starts a standalone milvus & its dependencies with the least resources requests. It is not suitable for production environment. For more deployment examples please check https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/tree/main/config/samples

# Versioning

Versions of the underlying components are listed below:

<!-- source csv for table
Components, Milvus, Pulsar / Kafka, Etcd, MinIO
Versions, v2.6.0 `[1]`, 3.0.7 / 3.1.0, 3.5.18, RELEASE.2023-03-20T20-16-18Z -->

|Components| Milvus| Pulsar / Kafka| Etcd| MinIO|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Versions| v2.6.0 `[1]`| 3.0.7`[2]` / 3.1.0 | 3.5.18 |RELEASE.2023-03-20T20-16-18Z|


> `[1]` Version of milvus is the default version we will use, you can set it to other version. The Compatibility with milvus releases is showed below.
>
> `[2]` pulsar of 2.x is also supported. check [this sample](config/samples/milvus_pulsar_v2.yaml) for more details.

## Compatibility With Milvus Releases

<!-- source csv for table
Milvus Versions, <=v2.0.0-rc8, v2.0.0-pre-ga, >=v2.0.0
Compatibility, ❌, ✅, ✅  -->

|Milvus Versions| <=v2.0.0-rc8| v2.0.0-pre-ga| >=v2.0.0|
|---|---|---|---|
|Compatibility| ❌| ✅| ✅|

## Compatibility With Milvus-Operator Earlier Releases

<!-- source csv for table
Milvus Operator Versions, <0.4.0, >=0.4.0
Compatibility, ❌, ✅  -->

|Milvus Operator Versions| <0.4.0| >=0.4.0|
|---|---|---|
|Compatibility| ❌| ✅|


# Install / upgrade milvus-operator of a specific version

Use helm:

```shell
helm upgrade --install milvus-operator \
  -n milvus-operator --create-namespace \
  https://github.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/releases/download/v1.3.0/milvus-operator-1.3.0.tgz
```

Or use kubectl & raw manifests:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zilliztech/milvus-operator/v1.3.0/deploy/manifests/deployment.yaml
```
